## ARTICLE 7.11<br/> VEHICLES - ABANDONMENT AND IMPROPER STORAGE

### SECTION 7.11.1 GENERAL PROHIBITION

```
Except as to vehicles for which other provisions are made
under the laws of the Commonwealth, no person shall abandon
any vehicle at any place within the town and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town for
such time and under such circumstance as to cause it to
reasonably appear that such vehicle has been abandoned.

Except as to vehicles for which other provisions are made
under the laws of the Commonwealth, no person shall leave
any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, non-operative or
discarded vehicle upon any street or other public grounds
in the town or upon any property therein without the
permission of the owner or lessee of said property.
```

### SECTION 7.11.2 STORAGE

```
No person in charge or control of any property in the town,
whether as owner, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall
allow any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, non-
operative or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than (10) days after written notice to the owner has
been given by the Town of Brookline, except (i) a vehicle
which is in an enclosed building or in an area unexposed to
the view of the public or any abutter, (ii) a vehicle on
the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful
place and manner when necessary to the operation of such
business enterprises, (iii) a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained by the town or with
the consent of the town, (iv) or a vehicle upon property
covered by a class (3) license, duly in effect under
General Laws, Chapter 140, Section 58.
```

### SECTION 7.11.3 REMOVAL

```
Vehicles which are apparently abandoned or reasonably
appear to have been left on any property within the town in
violation of any provisions of this by-law or appear to be
lost, stolen or unclaimed may be removed in accordance with
provisions of chapter 135 of the General Laws relating to
lost, unclaimed or abandoned property, or the provisions of
General Laws, Chapter 90, Section 22c.
```
