## ARTICLE 7.8<br/>REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM STREETS

### SECTION 7.8.1 REMOVING VEHICLES

```
The Commissioner of Public Works or his designee, for the
purpose of removing or plowing snow, or, removing ice from
any street or way may remove or cause to be removed to some
convenient place, including a public garage, any vehicle
interfering with such work.  He shall keep or cause to be
kept records of the registration number of each vehicle so
removed and the place to which it is removed, and shall
within forty-eight hours after the removal of any such
vehicle send notice by mail to the owner of such vehicle,
at his address as recorded at the Registry of Motor
Vehicles, of the place to which such vehicle has been
removed.  If the owner of the vehicle be unknown or be not
on record at the Registry of Motor Vehicles for this
Commonwealth, the Commissioner of Public Works or his
desingee shall on the business day following the day of
removal publish, at least once in a newspaper published and
having a general circulation in Brookline or Boston, notice
of the removal, the registration number, if any, the type
of vehicle and the place to which the same was removed.
```

### SECTION 7.8.2 RETRIEVING TOWED VEHICLES

```
Before the owner or his agent shall be permitted to remove
a vehicle which has been removed as aforesaid to a public
garage or other convenient place, he shall:

     (a)  Furnish satisfactory evidence to the owner or
          person in charge of said public garage or to the
          Commissioner or his assignee of his identity and
          ownership or right to possession of said vehicle;

     (b)  Pay the reasonable cost of removing said vehicle
          to the place of storage and all storage charges,
          if any, together with the cost of publishing or
          sending any notices hereunder.
```
