## ARTICLE 7.5<br/>GENERAL PROHIBITIONS

### SECTION 7.5.1 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES

```
No person shall throw stones, snowballs, sticks, or other
missiles, kick a football, play ball, or play at any game
at which a ball of any kind is used or fly kites on any
street of the town.

No person shall engage in the business or activity of
purchasing, selling or reselling merchandise, tickets or
other articles in or within any street or public property,
unless licensed, authorized by the local licensing
authority or acting under the authority of law or a by-law
of the town.  If a person, observed purchasing, selling or
reselling merchandise, tickets or other articles in or
within any street or on public property, in violation of
this section, is unknown or is without sufficient
identification to permit the police officer observing such
purchasing, selling or reselling to identify him or her,
that person may be arrested by that officer without a
warrant.
```

### SECTION 7.5.2 ATTACHING TO A STREET CAR OR VEHICLE

```
It shall be unlawful for any person traveling upon any
bicycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle to
cling to, attach himself or such conveyance to any other
moving vehicle or street car upon any street.
```

### SECTION 7.5.3 AUTOMOBILE HORN

```
No person shall sound an automobile or motor vehicle horn
between the hours of 10 P.M. and 7 A.M. anywhere in the
Town of Brookline except in cases of emergency.
```

### SECTION 7.5.4 DELIVERY FROM A STREET

```
Any person or corporation intending to deliver coal, oil or
other materials to any premises, abutting on any street and
desiring to make use of any portion of the said street by
placing thereon slides, pipes, or other devices shall give
notice thereof to the selectmen who may thereupon grant a
permit to occupy such portion of the said street to be used
for such purpose as in their judgment the necessity of the
case demands and the security of the public allows, the
same to be granted for such length of time and upon such
conditions as the Selectmen may require.
```

### SECTION 7.5.5 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES IN OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS

```
(a)  Any person or body that has lawful control of a
     private way or of improved or enclosed property used
     as off-street parking areas for businesses, shopping
     malls, theaters, auditoriums, sporting or recreational
     facilities, cultural centers, residential dwellings,
     or for any other place where the public has a right of
     access as invitees or licensees shall reserve parking
     spaces in said off-street parking area for any
     vehicle, used exclusively for noncommercial purposes,
     owned or leased by and used by a blind person or a
     person who has suffered a disability or handicap that
     qualifies such person to an identification plate for
     handicapped persons, under General Laws, Chapter 90,
     section 2, as amended, and displays an identification
     plate in accordance with said section 2, according to
     the following formula:

     If the number of parking spaces in 
     any such area is more than fifteen 
     but not more than twenty-five, one 
     parking space; more than twenty- 
     five but not more than forty, five 
     percent of such spaces but not 
     less than two; more than forty but 
     not more than one hundred, four 
     percent of such spaces but not 
     less than three; more than one 
     hundred but not more than two 
     hundred, three percent of such 
     spaces but not less than four, 
     more than two hundred but not more 
     than five hundred, two percent of 
     such spaces but not less than six; 
     more than five hundred but not 
     more than one thousand, 
     one and one-half percent of such spaces 
     but not less than ten; more than 
     two thousand but less than five 
     thousand, three-fourths of one 
     percent of such spaces but not 
     less than twenty; and more than
     five thousand, one-half of one 
     percent of such spaces but not 
     less than thirty.

(b)  Parking spaces designated as reserved under the
     provisions of paragraph (a) shall be identified by the
     use of above grade signs with white lettering against
     a blue background and shall bear the words
     "Handicapped Parking: Special Plate Required.
     Unauthorized Vehicles May be Removed at Owner's
     Expense"; shall be as near as possible to a building
     entrance or walkway; shall be adjacent to curb ramps
     or other unobstructed methods permitting sidewalk
     access to a handicapped person; and shall be twelve
     feet wide or two eight-foot wide areas with four feet
     of cross hatch between them.

(c)  No unauthorized vehicle may be left within parking
     spaces designated as reserved for use by handicapped
     persons or disabled veterans under (a) and (b) above.

(d)  The penalty for violation of this by-law shall not be
     less then twenty-five dollars nor more than one
     hundred dollars. Any vehicle parked in violation of
     this by-law may be removed according to the provisions
     of section one hundred and twenty D of chapter two
     hundred and sixty-six of the General Laws.
```

### SECTION 7.5.6 HAULING REFUSE

```
No person, unless he is the holder of a permit issued by
the Board of Health and except in accordance with the terms
and conditions of such permit, shall carry in or through
any of the streets, sidewalks or public places in the town
any refuse in excess of the refuse contained in two
standard size (32 gallon) trash barrels.
```

### SECTION 7.5.7 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

```
Whoever transports hazardous materials in such quantity as
requires notification of the State Department of Public
Health, shall give notice to the Chiefs of the Fire and
Police Departments at least twenty-four (24) hours before
such proposed transportation, stating the quantity, type of
material, degree of radioactivity and shipping routes and
time of such transport.  Such shipments shall not leave a
State or Interstate highway except under the direction of
the Chiefs of the Fire and Police Departments.
```

### SECTION 7.5.8       IDLING OF MOTOR VEHICLES

```
No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit the
unnecessary operation of the engine of a motor vehicle
while said vehicle is stopped, on a private way or on
private property, for a foreseeable period of time in
excess of five minutes.  This prohibition shall not apply
to (a) vehicles being serviced, provided, that the
operation of the engine is essential to its proper repair,
or (b) vehicles engaged in the delivery or acceptance of
goods, wares or merchandise for which engine assisted power
is necessary and substitute alternate means cannot be made
available, or (c) vehicles engaged in an operation for
which the engine power is necessary for an associate power
need other than movement and substitute alternate power
means cannot be made available, provided, that such
operation does not cause or contribute to a condition of
air pollution.
```

### SECTION 7.5.9 LIQUID TRANSPORT

```
No person shall transport any liquid, substance or material
of any kind in any vehicle on any street within the town in
such a manner that such liquid, substance, or material
leaks, overflows, or falls from such vehicle into such
streets.
```

### SECTION 7.5.10 MISSILES

```
No person shall shoot or use a bow and arrow or air gun in
any street of the town, and no person shall have in
possession, any toy pistol, or device for throwing missiles
of any kind, with intent to use the same to the injury of
persons or property, or to the annoyance or discomfort of
any person, upon any street of the town.
```

### SECTION 7.5.11 OBSTRUCTIONS

```
No person shall place or cause to be placed in any street
or upon any sidewalk of the town, any lumber, coal, iron,
trunk, bale, box, crate, cask, package, article, or
anything whatsoever so as to obstruct a free passage for
travelers, nor allow any of the same to remain more than
one hour after being notified by a police officer to remove
it, except that nothing herein contained shall be construed
to prevent the use of streets and sidewalks for building
purposes upon obtaining a permit from the Board of
Selectmen.
```

### SECTION 7.5.12 PARKING METERS

```
The Traffic Rules and Regulations of the Town of Brookline
may be amended to provide for the installation of meters
that provide for metered parking in excess of two hours in
specifically designated areas; subject to Town Meeting
approval and funding of the purchase of said meters.
```

### SECTION 7.5.13 PERMIT PARKING

```
No person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the
streets of the Town designated in The Traffic Rules and
Regulations of the Town of Brookline for permit parking
only, and on which streets signs are posted in each block
which give notice of permit parking, without a permit
issued by the Town Clerk's Office.  Said Rules and
Regulations shall include a fee scheduled for the permits
which will cover the cost of administering the
permit parking program.
```

### SECTION 7.5.14 POLICE OFFICERâ€™S DIRECTIONS

```
No person having charge of a vehicle in any street shall
neglect to stop the same or to place the same when stopped
as directed by a police officer of the town, nor shall
neglect or refuse to go upon that part of said way to which
such person is directed by a police officer of the town.
All persons using a street shall obey the lawful directions
of a police officer.
```

### SECTION 7.5.15 REPAIRS TO VEHICLES

```
No person shall repair, wash, or clean vehicles or cause
them to be repaired, washed or cleaned in or on any street
of the town, nor shall any person occupy any part of any
street as storage room for a vehicle of any kind; except in
an emergency temporary repairs may be made.
```

### SECTION 7.5.16 RESERVATIONS

```
No person driving or having charge of any vehicle shall
drive or permit the said vehicle to go upon any street-car
reservation or other well-defined reservation in the town.
```

### SECTION 7.5.17 RUBBISH AND TRASH COLLECTION

```
No person shall place, or cause to be placed, rubbish and
trash, put out for collection, within or near a street or
private way, except after 3:30 p.m. on the day prior to
collection.
```

### SECTION 7.5.18 SIDEWALKS

```
No person shall ride a horse, drive, wheel, or draw any
coach, cart, wheelbarrow, handcart (except childrenâ€™s
carriages drawn by hand) upon any sidewalk in the town.
```

### SECTION 7.5.19 SNOW AND ICE

```
No person shall lay, throw, or place, or cause to be laid,
thrown, or placed, any ice or snow on that portion of any
street within the town which has been cleared or plowed for
travel.
```

### SECTION 7.5.20 UNATTENDED VEHICLES IN PRIVATE WAYS

```
No person having charge of any vehicle shall leave such
vehicle unattended for over five minutes within the limits
of any private way or alley way furnishing access to any
part of a tenant house or apartment house as defined in
Section 2 of Chapter 145 of the General Laws of the
Commonwealth, or to two or more dwelling houses, or to two
or more buildings or any type in separate ownership so as
to obstruct the free passage or use of any piece of fire
apparatus or other vehicle used for services required in
behalf of the public health, safety or morals, by or
through such ways.
```

### SECTION 7.5.21 USES OF STREETS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES

```
(a)  Permits for Street Use:  Any person who intends to
     erect, repair, or take   down any building on land
     abutting on any street which this town is obliged to
     keep in repair, and desires to make use of any portion
     of said street for the purpose of placing thereon
     building materials or rubbish, shall give notice
     thereof   to the Selectmen.  And thereafter the
     Selectmen, upon payment to the town of a fee of
     fifteen dollars ($15) for every thirty days or
     fraction thereof, may grant a permit to occupy such a
     portion of said street to be used for such purpose as
     in their judgment the necessity of the case demands
     and the security of the public allows; such permit in
     no case to be in force longer than ninety days, and to
     be on such conditions as the Selectmen may require;
     and especially, in every case, upon condition that
     during the whole of every night, from twilight in the
     evening until  sunrise in the morning, lighted
     lanterns or lights shall be so placed as effectually
     to secure all travelers from liability to come in
     contact with such building materials or rubbish.

(b)  No person shall use any portion of any street which
     the town is obliged to keep in repair for the purpose
     named in the next preceding section without the
     permit, in writing, of the Selectmen, as above
     provided, nor having obtained such permit, shall fail
     to comply with the conditions thereof; and in addition
     to any penalty to which he may be subjected under
     these by-laws for such failures, he shall reimburse
     the town for all expenses and damages which the town
     may be compelled to pay by reason of such unauthorized
     use, or of any failure to comply with said conditions.
     
```
