## ARTICLE 7.3<br/>CONSTRUCTION IN STREETS

### SECTION 7.3.1 PERMIT REQUIRED

```
No person, unless he or she is the holder of a permit
issued by the Board of Selectmen and is acting in
accordance with the terms and conditions of that permit,
shall construct, reconstruct, install or repair anything
that is on, over or under any street or shall place in or
within a street any structure, house or other building.
```

### SECTION 7.3.2 PUBLIC SAFETY

```
Before undertaking any work, including, without limitation
of the foregoing, construction, repair, maintenance or
reconstruction work, in, within or affecting a street, the
person responsible for such work or in charge of those
performing such work, shall review such work with the Chief
of Police, or his designee, to determine whether or not
such work will result in the disruption of the normal flow
of traffic or cause a safety hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.  If the Chief of Police, or his
designee, determines that such work will result in the
disruption of a normal flow of traffic or cause to exist a
safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, the
person responsible for such work or in charge of those
performing such work shall observe the safety precautions
ordered by the Chief, or his designee, including the hiring
of a Brookline Police Officer, under the existing
regulations governing private paid police details, to
direct traffic and minimize the vehicle safety hazards
connected with such work.
```

### SECTION 7.3.3 PENALTY

```
No work shall be commenced in, within or affecting a street
until the requirements of this Article 7.3 have been
complied with.  The Town of Brookline is exempt from the
requirements of this Article.  Whoever violates the
provisions of this Article shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $200.00.
```
