## ARTICLE 4.8<br/>LIVING WAGE BY-LAW

### SECTION 4.8.1 TITLE

```
This By-Law shall be known as the “Living Wage By-Law.”
```

### SECTION 4.8.2 LIVING WAGE

```
(a)  The town of Brookline (“town”) shall pay each of
     its employees no less than $10.30 an hour except
     as provided in Section 4.8.5 and in collective
     bargaining agreements with the town under G.L. c.
     150E, section 7.

(b)  The wage prescribed in paragraph (a) of this
     Section 4.8.2 shall be known as the “living wage”
     and shall be adjusted annually by the same
     percentage and on the same schedule relative to
     wage adjustments given to full-time, nonunion
     town employees on the town’s general pay
     schedule, beginning in the year 2003.

(c)  The living wage shall also be adjusted annually
     at the time of and after the adjustment set forth
     in paragraph (b) of this Section 4.8.2 if
     necessary to insure that as so adjusted, it is at
     least one dollar more than the state minimum wage
     in effect under G.L. c.151 at the time of such
     adjustment.
```

### SECTION 4.8.3 MINIMUM WAGE

```
The compensation of employees exempted from the living
wage under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section
4.8.5 shall be adjusted annually at the same time as the
adjustment referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.8.2 if
necessary to insure that the hourly wage is at least one
dollar more than the state minimum wage in effect under
G.L. c.151 at the time of such adjustment.
```

### SECTION 4.8.4 NOTICE

```
The town shall provide each employee with a fact sheet
about this By-Law and shall post current notices about the
By-Law in conspicuous locations in town buildings.  These
fact sheets and posters shall include:

(a)  notice of the living wage amount;

(b)  notice of the town minimum wage amount under
     Section 4.8.3;

(c)  a summary of the By-Law provisions;

(d)  notice that a person claiming to be aggrieved by
     a violation of this By-Law may file a grievance
     under the town’s Human Resources By-Law (Section
     3.15.11) or, if a School Department employee, a
     complaint with the Assistant Superintendent of
     Schools for Personnel; notice that upon
     exhaustion of this administrative remedy, such
     person may seek appropriate legal relief.
```

### SECTION 4.8.5 EXCEPTIONS

```
The town shall not be required to pay the living wage
to the following persons:

(a)  seasonal employees who work less than six months
     in any twelve-month cycle;

(b)  employees participating in a work-study or
     cooperative educational program;

(c)  employees whose positions are funded, in full or
     in part, by Community Development Block Grant or
     State Elder Services Grant monies;

(d)  town library Junior Library Pages;

(e)  Putterham Meadows Golf Course rangers;

(f)  volunteers and all persons appointed or elected
     to town committees;

(g)  elected officers of the town.
```

### SECTION 4.8.6

```
a. Definitions:

In construing SECTION 4.8.6, the following words shall have
the meanings herein given, unless a contrary intention
clearly applies.

_Covered employer_ means anyone who has been awarded a
service contract or subcontract with the Town after the
effective date of the By-law.

_Covered Employee_ means any employee who performs direct
services for the purpose of fulfilling the covered
employer’s contractual obligations, provided however,
employees who perform services that are incidental to the
execution of the contract are not covered employees.

_Person_ means one or more of the following or their agents,
employees, servants, representatives, and legal
representatives: individuals, corporations, partnerships,
joint ventures, associations, labor organizations,
educational institutions, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries, and all
other entities recognized at law by this commonwealth,

_Services_ means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort by
a contractor and/or covered employer.

_Service contract_ means a contract for services awarded to
a vendor by the town for no less than the following
amounts: (i) $25,000.00 for contracts commencing in fiscal
year 2006, (ii) $10,000.00 for contracts commencing in
fiscal year 2007 (iii) $5,000.00 for contracts commencing 
in fiscal year 2008 and thereafter.  Any bids opened prior
to fiscal year 2006 shall not be subject to this article.

b. Application of Living Wage By-Law to Contracts

After the applicable date of this By-Law, the guidelines
outlined in the Living Wage By-Law, Section 4.8.2 Living
Wage, shall apply to all service contracts of the Town of
Brookline.

These guidelines shall be followed to ensure that all
covered employers shall pay their covered employees (both
as defined above) providing services to the Town of
Brookline and any of its Departments a Living Wage as
defined in Article 4.8 Section 2.

c. Enforcement

_Grievance procedures and nondiscrimination._  Any covered
employee who believes that his or her employer is not
complying with requirements of this article applicable to
the employer has the right to file a complaint with the
town’s Chief Procurement Officer or Board of Selectmen.
Complaints of alleged violations may also be filed by
concerned citizens or by a town official or employee.
Complaints of alleged violations may be made at any time
and shall be investigated promptly by or for the officer or
board that received the Complaint.  To the extent allowed
under the Public Records Law, G.L.c.66, statements, written
or oral, made by a covered employee, shall be treated as
confidential and shall not be disclosed to the covered
employer without the consent of the covered employee.

_Investigations._  The Chief Procurement Officer or Board of
Selectmen who received a complaint, as aforesaid, shall
investigate or have the complaint investigated and may, in
conjunction with the Town Counsel, require the production
by the covered employer of such evidence as required. The
covered employer shall submit payroll records (meaning
records that relate to wages paid) upon request, and the
failure to comply with the request may be a basis for
terminating any contract between the parties. Upon receipt
by the town of information of possible noncompliance with
the provisions of this article, the covered employer shall
permit representatives of the Chief Procurement Officer or
Board of Selectmen to observe work being performed upon the
work site, to interview employees and to examine payroll
records, the books and records relating to the payrolls
being investigated, to determine whether or not the
relevant payment of wages complies with this By-Law.

_Retaliation and Discrimination Barred._  A covered employer
shall not discharge, reduce the compensation of, or
otherwise discriminate against any employee for making a
complaint to the Town or otherwise asserting his or her
rights under this article, participating in any of its
proceedings or using any civil remedies to enforce his of
her rights under the article. The Town shall investigate
allegations of retaliation or discrimination and may, in
conjunction with Town Counsel, and in accordance with the
powers herein granted, require the production by the
employer of such evidence as may be deemed necessary or
desirable during such investigation.

d. Remedies

In the event that the town shall determine, after notice
and hearing, that any covered employer has failed to pay
the living wage or has otherwise violated the provisions of
this article:

(1)  The town may pursue the following remedies and
     relief:

(a) Fines not to exceed $300.00 for each week, for
    each employee found to have not been paid in
    accordance with this article; and

(b) Suspension of ongoing contract and subcontract
    payments.

(2) If the covered employer has failed to pay the living
    wage, the town may terminate all service contracts with
    the covered employer unless appropriate relief,
    including restitution to each affected covered
    employee, is made within a specified time.

(3) If the covered employer has discharged, reduced the
    compensation or otherwise discriminated against any
    covered employee for making a complaint to the town,
    otherwise asserting his or her rights under this
    article, participating in any of its proceedings or
    using any civil remedies to enforce his or her rights
    under the ordinance, the town may terminate all service
    contracts with the covered employer unless appropriate
    relief, including restitution to each affected covered
    employee and reinstatement of each discharged covered
    employee, is made within a specified time.
```

### SECTION 4.8.7 SEVERABILITY

```
If any portion or provision of this By-Law is declared
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction or the Office of the Attorney General, the
remaining provisions shall continue in full force and
effect.
```
