## ARTICLE 5.3<br/>DEMOLITION DELAY BY-LAW

### SECTION 5.3.1 INTENT AND PURPOSE

```
This by-law is adopted to preserve and protect Significant
Buildings within the Town which reflect distinctive
features of the architectural, cultural, political,
economic or social history of the Town and/or Commonwealth;
to encourage property owners of Significant Buildings to
seek ways to preserve, rehabilitate or restore such
buildings rather than demolish them; and by furthering
these purposes, to preserve the resources of the Town and
promote the public welfare.  To achieve these purposes, the
Brookline Preservation Commission and the Building
Commissioner are empowered with respect to the issuance of
demolition permits as provided in this by-law.
```

### SECTION 5.3.2 DEFINITIONS

```
The following terms when used in this by-law, shall have
the meanings set forth below, unless the context otherwise
requires:

a. “Applicant”- any person or entity who files an
Application for a Demolition Permit.

b. "Application" - an Application to the Building
Department for a demolition permit.

c. "Building" - any combination of materials having a roof
and permanent foundation and forming a shelter for persons,
animals or property.

d. “Building Commissioner” - the person occupying the
office of Building Commissioner or otherwise authorized to
issue Demolition Permits.

e. "Business Day" - a day which is not a legal municipal
holiday, Saturday or Sunday.

f. "Commission"- the Brookline Preservation Commission or
its successor.

g. "Commission Staff" - the persons(s) regularly providing
staff services for the Commission whom the Commission has
designated Commission Staff for the purposes of this by-
law.

h. "Demolition" – (a) the act of pulling down, destroying,
removing or razing a Building or a significant portion
thereof, by removing one side of the building, or removing
the roof, or removing 25% of the structure; (ii) moving a
Building from its site with no permitted new location for
said Building; (iii) in the case of a Building within
Section 5.3.5(b), substantially gutting (as defined by the
Preservation Commission per section 5.3.14) an interior
space that has generally been open to the public and is
integral to the historic character of the building; (iv) in
the case of a building within Section 5.3.5(b), the
systematic removal, effacement, or destruction of the
exterior architectural elements which define or contribute
to the historic character of the Building, or (v)
commencing any of the foregoing work. "Demolition" as used
herein shall be deemed to include Demolition by Neglect.

i. “Demolition by Neglect” - a process of ongoing damage to
the fabric, viability and/or functionability of a building
leading towards and/or causing its eventual demolition due
to decay and/or structural failure and/or severe
degradation over a period of time as a result of a general
lack of maintenance, and/or failure to secure the building
from pests or vandals, and/or failure to take reasonable
measures to prevent the ingress of water, snow, ice, and
wind through the roof, walls, or apertures.

j. "Demolition Permit" - a building permit issued by the
Building Commissioner allowing the total or partial
demolition of a building pursuant to an Application.

k. "Initial Determination" - any determination contemplated
in Section 5.3.5 of this by-law made by the Commission or
its staff.

l. "Local Historic District" - Cottage Farm Local Historic
District, Pill Hill Local Historic District, Graffam McKay
Local Historic District, Chestnut Hill North Local Historic
District, Harvard Avenue Local Historic District or any
other historic district which from time to time may be
established under M.G.L. Ch. 40C.

m. “Mitigation” – actions taken to partially compensate for
the demolition of a Significant Building, including without
limitation: removal of the building to a new location;
offering the building for removal to a new location;
monetary support for same; incorporation of part or all of
the building into a new building; submitting any
replacement building to design review by the Commission;
and recordation and visual documentation of the existing
building.

n. "Significant Building" - any existing building,
including without limitation any interior space that has
generally been open to the public and is integral to the
historic character of the building, within the Town which
the Commission determines, as provided in Section 5.3.5 and
5.3.8 of this by-law, to be in the public interest to be
preserved or rehabilitated, and whose demolition would be
detrimental to the historical and/or architectural heritage
and resources of the Town or in the case of a building that
has been demolished without a Demolition Permit any
building which the Commission determines in a public
hearing would have met said criteria.
```

### SECTION 5.3.3 PROCEDURE

```
General - No permit for the demolition of a building shall
be issued other than in conformity with the provisions of
this by-law, notwithstanding the provision of other codes
and by-laws applicable to demolition of buildings and
permits issued therefore, except with respect to buildings
in Local Historic Districts for which MGL 40c and section
5.6 the Town’s by-laws shall take precedence, where
applicable.
```

### SECTION 5.3.4 APPLICATION

```
a.  An Application to the Building Department for a
Demolition Permit shall be made or co-signed by the owner
of record at the time of Application and shall contain or
be accompanied by the following information, without which
it shall not be deemed complete:
 i.   The address of the building to be demolished.
 ii.  The owner's name, address and telephone number.
 iii. A description of the type of building.
 iv.  The scope of the proposed demolition.

b.  A separate Application shall be made for each building
on the property.

c.  The Applicant shall deliver a copy of said Application
to the Commission, and the submission of said copy shall be
a precondition to completing an Application for a
Demolition Permit to the Building Department.
```

### SECTION 5.3.5 INITIAL DETERMINATION

```
Within ten Business Days of the receipt of the Application
by the Commission, the Commission Staff in consultation
with the Chair of the Commission, shall make an Initial
Determination as to whether the building falls into one or
more of the categories listed as (a) through (d) of this
section, and shall notify in writing the Commission, the
Building Commissioner, Town Clerk, Planning Director the
owner of record as indicated on the Application and the
Applicant if different from owner of record, of its initial
determination.  The categories shall be as follows:

a. The building is located within any Local Historic
   District;

b. The building is listed on or is within an area listed on
   the National or State Registers of Historic Places; is
   eligible for listing on the National or State Registers of
   historic places; or is a building for which a preliminary
   determination of eligibility has been made by the
   Massachusetts Historical Commission;

c. The building is associated with one or more significant
   historic persons or events, or with the broad
   architectural, cultural, political, economic, or social
   history of the Town or Commonwealth; or

d. The building is historically or architecturally
   significant in terms of its period, style, method of
   building construction, or its association with a
   significant architect or builder, either by itself or as
   part of a group of buildings.
```

### SECTION 5.3.6 WITHHOLDING OF DEMOLITION PERMIT

```
The Building Commissioner shall not issue a Demolition
Permit until the procedural requirements of Sections 5.3.3
through 5.3.12, inclusive, have been satisfied unless:

a. The Building Commissioner receives written notice from
the Commission Staff that the building does not fall into
one or more of the categories in Section 5.3.5;

b. The Building Commissioner fails to receive written
notice from the Commission Staff of its Initial
Determination required by Section 5.3.5 within the
specified time period;

c. The Building Commissioner receives written notice from
the Commission Staff that while the building falls into one
or more of the categories in Section 5.3.5, the building
clearly could not be deemed significant by the Commission
or;

d. The Building Commissioner receives written notice from
the Commission Staff that the proposed work is not
Demolition as defined by Section 5.3.2(h).
```

### SECTION 5.3.7 PUBLIC HEARINGS

```
Within 20 Business Days of an Initial Determination that
the building falls into one or more of the categories in
Section 5.3.5, the Commission shall review the Application
and Initial Determination, without reference to any
proposed replacement use or design, at a public hearing
with notice given as provided in Section 5.3.12 to
determine whether the building is significant as defined in
Section 5.3.2.
```

### SECTION 5.3.8 FINAL DETERMINATION

```
If the Commission determines after a public hearing that a
building is a Significant Building it shall notify the
Building Commissioner, Town Clerk, Planning Director, the
owner of record as indicated on the Application, and the
Applicant if different from owner of record, of its final
determination within 15 Business Days from the date of the
public hearing.
```

### SECTION 5.3.9 EXTENDED WITHHOLDING OF DEMOLITION PERMIT

```
The Building Commissioner shall withhold the Demolition
Permit for a period of one year, or for a period of
eighteen months if the building meets the criteria of
Section 5.3.5(b), from the date upon which the final
determination was made that a building is a Significant
Building except as provided in Section 5.3.11.
```

### SECTION 5.3.10 ALTERNATIVES TO DEMOLITION AND MITIGATION

```
If the Commission makes a final determination that the
building is Significant, the Commission chairman and staff
shall invite the owner of record of the building, the
Building Commissioner, and the Planning Director to
participate in an investigation of alternatives to
demolition including but not limited to incorporation of
the building into the future development of the site;
adaptive reuse of the building; utilization of financial
incentives to rehabilitate the building; seeking a new
owner willing to purchase and preserve, restore or
rehabilitate the building; or moving the building.
```

### SECTION 5.3.11 EXCEPTIONS TO WITHHOLDING OF DEMOLITION PERMIT / EMERGENCY DEMOLITION

```
a. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.3.9, the
Building Commissioner may issue a Demolition Permit for a
Significant Building at any time after receipt of written
advice from the Commission to the effect that the
Commission is satisfied that there is no reasonable
likelihood that the building can be preserved, restored,
rehabilitated or moved, the issuance of said permit being
subject to such stipulations, if any, as the Commission and
the Applicant may have agreed upon as Mitigation for said
demolition.

b. Nothing in this by-law shall restrict the Building
Commissioner from immediately ordering the demolition of
any building in the event of imminent danger to the
public's safety or health due to deteriorated conditions.
Prior to such demolition the structure shall be inspected
by the Building Commissioner, and findings and reasons for
immediate demolition shall be recorded in a written report,
a copy of which shall be forwarded promptly to the
Commission.
```

### SECTION 5.3.12 NOTICE

```
Notice of any public hearing required by this by-law shall
be given by the Commission to the owner of record; the
Applicant for the demolition permit (if different from the
owner of record); the immediate abutters to the subject
property, the owners of land directly opposite on any
public or private street, and abutters to the abutters
within three hundred feet of the property line of the
subject property as they appear on the most recent
applicable tax list; to each elected Town Meeting member
for the precinct in which the subject property is located;
the Building Commissioner; Town Clerk; Planning Director;
and to such other persons as the Commission may determine.
The Commission may among other forms of notice require that
the Applicant maintain on the subject building a notice, in
a form designated by the Commission visible from the
nearest public way, of any hearing upon the subject matter
of such Application.
```

### SECTION 5.3.13 ENFORCEMENT

```
The Building Commissioner shall institute any and all
actions and proceedings as may be necessary and appropriate
to obtain compliance with the requirements of this by-law
or to prevent a violation or threatened violation thereof.
```

### SECTION 5.3.14 ADMINISTRATION

```
The Commission may from time to time adopt such rules and
regulations as are necessary to administer the terms of
this bylaw.  The amount of the fee for costs associated
with the administration of this bylaw shall be established,
and may be amended from time to time, by the Board of
Selectmen.
```

### SECTION 5.3.15 NON-COMPLIANCE

```
Anyone who demolishes a Significant Building except
pursuant to court order without complying fully with the
provisions of this by-law shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $300.  Each day from the date of the commencement of
demolition to the final determination by a court of
competent jurisdiction shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition, no building permit may be issued for such
premises while such court action is pending, or within two
years of a judicial determination that there has been a
violation of this by-law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
building permit may be issued at any time for new
construction that would faithfully replicate the exterior
of the demolished Significant Building.  Such replication
shall be subject to prior review and approval by the
Commission, whose review shall consider use of materials,
design, dimensions, massing, arrangement of architectural
features, execution of decorative details, and other
relevant factors.  As used herein, premises refers to the
parcel of land upon which the demolished building was
located and all abutting parcels of land under common
ownership or control on or subsequent to the date that this
by-law was adopted by Town Meeting.
```

### SECTION 5.3.16 HISTORIC DISTRICTS

```
If any of the provisions of this by-law shall conflict with
the Historic Districts Act, M.G.L. Ch. 40C, the state
statute shall prevail.
```

### SECTION 5.3.17 VALIDITY

```
The invalidity of any section or provision of this by-law
shall not render invalid any other section or provision of
this by-law.
```
