## ARTICLE 5.2<br/>CONDOMINIUM HEALTH AND SAFETY AT TIME OF CONVERSION

### SECTION 5.2.1 NOTICE OF CONVERSION

```
Within forty-eight hours after the recording of a
master deed under G.L. c. 183A, the owner or owners
who create a condominium shall file a copy of the
master deed with the Building Department of the Town
of Brookline and the Town shall thereupon inspect the
condominium premises in the following manner:

(a) The Health Department shall make an inspection
within a reasonable time of said premises to determine
if the same are in compliance with all applicable
provisions of Article II of the State Sanitary Code as
the same may be amended from time to time and all
applicable rules and regulations of said Health
Department; and

(b) The Building Department shall make an inspection
within a reasonable time of said premises to determine
if the same are in compliance with all applicable
provisions of the state and local codes, ordinances
and the rules and regulations of all appropriate
regulatory agencies.
```

### SECTION 5.2.2 DEFINITIONS

```
“Owner”, includes a legal or beneficial owner, lessor,
sub-lessor, manager, assignee, or other person
receiving or entitled to receive rent for the use or
occupancy of any housing accommodation or an agent of
any of the foregoing.
```

### SECTION 5.2.3 ENFORCEMENT

```
(a) The Building Department shall be responsible for
enforcing the provisions of Section 5.2.1 and may
issue orders and promulgate regulations to effectuate
the purposes of Section 5.2.1 and to establish
procedures thereunder.

(b) Any owner who converts property in violation of
Section 5.2.1 or of any regulation adopted or order
issued pursuant thereto shall be punished by a fine of
not more than fifty dollars.  Each unit converted in
violation of Section 5.2.1 and each day of continued
violation for such unit shall constitute a separate
offense.

(c) The District Court Department, Brookline Division,
and the Superior Court Department shall have
jurisdiction over any action arising from any
violation of Section 5.2.1 or any regulation adopted
or order issued pursuant thereto and shall have
jurisdiction in equity to restrain any such violation.
```

### SECTION 5.2.4 TENANT PROTECTIONS

```
The protection of tenants of residential properties
undergoing conversion to the condominium form of
ownership shall no longer be regulated by this Article
but instead shall be regulated by Chapter 527 of the
1983 Massachusetts Acts and Resolves as the same may
be amended from time to time.
```

### SECTION 5.2.5 SEVERABILITY

```
If any provision of this Article or the application of
any provision to any person or circumstance shall be
held invalid, the validity of the other provisions or
the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be thereby affected.
```
