## ARTICLE 8.29<br/>NUISANCE CONTROL

### SECTION 8.29.1 Purpose

```
In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Town, this bylaw shall permit the Town to impose
liability on Property Owners and other responsible persons for the
nuisances and harm caused by loud and unruly Gatherings on private
property and shall prohibit the consumption of alcoholic beverages by
underage persons at such Gatherings.
```

### SECTION 8.29.2 DEFINITIONS

```
Eviction means actively trying to evict a tenant from a premise by
delivery of a notice to quit and subsequent court proceedings, if a
tenant fails to vacate the Premises.

Gathering is a party or event, where two or more persons have
assembled or are assembled for a social occasion or social
activity.

Premises means any residence or other private property, place, or
location, including any commercial or business property.

Property Owner means the legal owner of record of a Premises as
listed by the tax assessor’s records.

Public Nuisance means a Gathering of persons on any Premises in a
manner which constitutes a violation of law or creates a
substantial disturbance of the quiet enjoyment of private or public
property in a neighborhood.  Behavior constituting a Public
Nuisance includes, but is not limited to excessive noise and
excessive pedestrian and vehicular traffic related thereto,
obstruction of public ways by crowds or vehicles, illegal parking,
public urination, the service of alcohol to underage persons,
fights, disturbances of the peace, and littering.

Response Costs are the costs associated with responses by law
enforcement, fire, and other emergency response providers to a
gathering which has resulted in a Public Nuisance as set forth in a
schedule of costs established by the Board of Selectmen.
```

### SECTION 8.29.3 MAILING OF NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER AND OTHERS

```
In the event police or other local officials have responded to a
Gathering constituting a Public Nuisance, a notice of response
shall be made within ten (10) days of the Gathering as follows:

(a) Property Owners: The Chief of Police shall mail a notice of
    response by Certified Mail to the Property Owner of the
    Premises where the Gathering occurred as listed on the Town
    of Brookline property tax assessment records and shall advise
    the Property Owner that the second such response on the same
    Premises within a one year period, as measured from the date
    of the first notice, shall result in liability of the
    Property Owner for all penalties and Response Costs
    associated with such response as more particularly described
    in sections 8.29.4 and 8.29.4.1 below.

(b) Educational Institutions: The Chief of Police shall send a
    notice of response to the president/headmaster or his/her
    designee of an educational institution if the persons who are
    liable in Section 8.29.4 and 8.29.4.1 are students at such
    educational institution. Such notice shall be sent by mail
    or other appropriate means.

(c) Persons Cited: The Chief of Police shall send a notice of
    response to any person who was personally cited at the time
    of the offense. Such notice shall be sent by mail or other
    appropriate means to the address stated on the individuals’
    government issued identification.
```

### SECTION 8.29.4 LIABILITY FOR A FIRST RESPONSE TO A GATHERING CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE ON A PREMISES

```
If the police department or other local officials have responded to a
Gathering constituting a Public Nuisance on a Premises, the
following persons shall be jointly and severally liable for fines
as set forth below, provided that no previous Gathering
constituting a Public Nuisance has occurred at the Premises within
the previous one year period.  Response Costs may also be assessed
at the discretion of the Chief of Police.  In lieu of issuing a
fine(s) a police officer may issue a written warning if the
response to the complaint occurs prior to 10:00 p.m.

(a) The person or persons residing on or otherwise in control of the
    premises where such Gathering took place whether present or not.

(b) The person or persons who organized or sponsored such Gathering.

(c) All persons attending such Gatherings who engage in any activity
    resulting in the Public Nuisance.
```

### SECTION 8.29.4.1 LIABILITY FOR A SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT RESPONSE TO A GATHERING CONSTITUTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE

```
If the police department is required to respond to a Gathering
constituting a Public Nuisance on the Premises more than once in
any one year period, as measured from the date of the first
response, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for fines as set forth below.  Response Costs may also be
assessed.

(a) The person or persons residing on or otherwise in control
    of the Premises where such Gathering took place whether present
    or not.

(b) The person or persons who organized or sponsored such Gathering.

(c) All persons attending such Gatherings who engage in any
    activity resulting in the Public Nuisance.

(d) The person, persons or business entity which at the time of the
    Gathering owned the Premises where the Gathering
    constituting the Public Nuisance took place, provided that
    notice of the first and subsequent responses has been mailed to
    the Property Owner of the Premises as set forth herein and the
    Gathering occurs at least fourteen (14) days after the mailing
    of the first such notice.  The Property Owner of the Premises
    shall not be held responsible for any violation and penalties if
    the Property Owner is actively pursuing Eviction from the
    Premises of a tenant who controlled, organized, sponsored or
    attended the Gathering.  The one year time period for violations
    for a Premises shall pertain only to the same residents
    occupying the Premises who have had the prior violation(s).  New
    residents shall start a new time cycle of one year should they
    violate the bylaw.
```

### SECTION 8.29.5 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY UNDERAGE PERSONS IS PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACE, PLACE OPEN TO PUBLIC, OR PLACE NOT OPEN TO PUBLIC

```
Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any underage
person to:

(a) Consume any alcoholic beverage at any public place or any
    place open to the public; or

(b) Consume any alcoholic beverage at any place not open to the
    public.
```

### SECTION 8.29.6 HOSTING, PERMITTING, OR ALLOWING A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT WHERE UNDERAGE PERSONS CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IS PROHIBITED

```
(a) It is the duty of any person having control of any Premises who
    knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a Gathering at said Premises
    to take all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of
    alcoholic beverages by any underage person at the Gathering.
    Reasonable steps include, but are not limited to, controlling
    access to alcoholic beverages at the Gathering; controlling the
    quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the Gathering;
    verifying the age of persons attending the Gathering by
    inspecting driver’s licenses or other government-issued
    identification cards to ensure that underage persons do not
    consume alcoholic beverages while at the Gathering; and
    supervising the activities of underage persons at the Gathering.

(b) A Gathering constituting a Public Nuisance may be abated by all
    reasonable means including, but not limited to, an order by the
    Police requiring the Gathering to be disbanded and citation
    and/or arrest of any persons under any applicable provision of
    local or state law.

(c) It is unlawful for any person having control of any Premises to
    knowingly host, permit, or allow a Gathering to take place at
    said Premises where at least one underage person consumes an
    alcoholic beverage, provided that the person having control of
    the Premises either knows an underage person has consumed an
    alcoholic beverage or reasonably should have known that an
    underage person consumed an alcoholic beverage and the person
    having control of said Premises failed to take all reasonable
    steps to prevent the consumption of an alcoholic beverage by an
    underage person.

(d) This Section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of
    alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between an underage
    person and his or her parent or legal guardian as set forth in
    G.L. c.138, § 34.

(e) This Section shall not apply to any Massachusetts
    Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission licensee at any Premises
    regulated by the Massachusetts Alcoholic Beverage Control
    Commission.
```

### SECTION 8.29.7 ENFORCEMENT

```
This bylaw shall be enforced by the noncriminal disposition process
of M.G.L. c.40 § 21D.  For the purpose of noncriminal enforcement,
the enforcing persons shall be any police officer of the Town of
Brookline. If enforced pursuant to noncriminal disposition, the
following fines shall apply per person cited under sections 8.29.4
and 8.29.4.1:


   First response:                              $100
   Second and subsequent response(s):           $300

The Town of Brookline may additionally seek administrative costs
and Response Costs associated with enforcement of this bylaw.

The provisions of this bylaw are enforceable without reference to
the Brookline Noise Control Bylaw 8.15 and without reference to the
fact that the police officer issuing a citation has not obtained a
scientific noise measurement prior to issuing the citation.  No
such scientific noise measurement is required under this bylaw and
the lack of a measurement shall not constitute a defense.

Sections 8.29.5 and 8.29.6 shall not limit the authority of police
officers to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of
conduct regulated by Sections 8.29.5 and 8.29.6, nor shall they
limit the Town of Brookline or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts’
ability to initiate and prosecute any criminal offense arising out
of the same circumstances necessitating the application of Sections
8.29.5 and 8.29.6.
```

### SECTION 8.29.8 LOCAL AUTHORITY AND SEVERABILITY

```
Nothing in this bylaw shall be construed to conflict with anything
in MGL Chapter 138 in regard to underage drinking.

No provision of this bylaw shall apply where prohibited or
preempted by state or federal law.

If any provision of this bylaw, or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances, is declared invalid, that invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this bylaw which can
be given effect without the invalid provisions or application, to
this end the provisions of this bylaw are severable.
```
