## ARTICLE 8.5<br/>DISORDERLY BEHAVIOR

### SECTION 8.5.1 DEFINITION

```
A person is disorderly, as used in Article 8.5, if, with
purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm,
or recklessly creating a risk thereof, that person: A.
engages in fighting or threatening,  or in violent or
tumultuous behavior; or B. makes unreasonable noise or
offensively course utterance, gesture or
display, or addresses abusive language to any person
present; or C. creates a hazardous or physically offensive
condition by any act which serves no legitimate purpose of
the actor.
```

### SECTION 8.5.2 DISORDERLY ACTION

```
No person shall behave in a disorderly manner in any
street, public place or place which the public has a right
of access.
```

### SECTION 8.5.3 LANGUAGE

```
No person shall use offensive or disorderly language to
threaten or annoy persons of the opposite sex or make any
threats, or use of other language to create a breach of the
peace in any street, public place or place to which the
public has a right of access.
```

### SECTION 8.5.4 PRESENT TO DISTURB

```
No person shall be, or remain, upon any street, sidewalk,
or upon any doorstep, portico, or other projection of any
house or building not owned by such person, to annoy or
disturb any person.
```

### SECTION 8.5.5 SOLICITING RIDES

```
No person, whether for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the operator of any vehicle, or otherwise, shall stand
on any sidewalk or street in such a manner as to obstruct a
free passage for pedestrians or vehicles.
```

### SECTION 8.5.6 ACTIVITIES IN STREETS

```
No person shall engage in any game, sport, or amusement, in
any street, whereby the free, safe, and convenient use
thereof by travelers thereon shall in any way be
interrupted.
```

### SECTION 8.5.7 PEEPING

```
No person, except an officer of the law in the performance
of his duties, shall enter upon the premises of another
with the intention of peeping into the windows of a house
or spying upon in any manner any person or persons therein.
```

### SECTION 8.5.8 SLIPPERY SURFACE

```
No person shall throw or place upon any sidewalk or
crosswalk, any banana skin, orange peel, or any slippery or
greasy substance.
```

### SECTION 8.5.9 VANDALISM AND THE DEFACEMENT OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY

### SECTION 8.5.9.1 PURPOSE AND INTENT

```
Vandalism and the existence of graffiti within the Town are
considered a public and private nuisance. The purpose of
this by-law is to protect public and private property from
acts of vandalism and defacement by prohibiting the
application of graffiti on such property and by requiring
property owners to remove publicly visible graffiti from
their property within a reasonable period of time.
```

### SECTION 8.5.9.2 DEFINITIONS

```
For the purposes of this by-law, “graffiti” is intended to
mean the intentional painting, marking, scratching,
etching, coloring, tagging, or other defacement of any
public or private property without the prior written
consent of the owner of such property.
```

### SECTION 8.5.9.3 PROHIBITED CONDUCT

```
The application of graffiti to the real or personal
property of another is prohibited.
```

### SECTION 8.5.9.4 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI

```
Upon determining that graffiti exists on any private or
other non-Town owned property and that such graffiti can be
viewed from a public place within the Town, the Chief of
Police or his designee may mail or deliver a notice to the
owner of the property on which the graffiti exists advising
the owner that the graffiti must be removed within fourteen
days.

In the case of graffiti on private residential property
consisting of thirty dwelling units or less, the property
owner shall, within fourteen days of delivery of the
notice, either remove the graffiti or submit a written
request to the Commissioner of Public Works along with a
release, requesting the Town to enter the property and
assist in removing the graffiti. Upon receipt of the
property owner’s written request and release, the
Commissioner of Public Works or his designee shall
determine whether the graffiti can be safely removed, and,
if so, whether it is appropriate to remove it. If the Town
assists in the removal of such graffiti, the Town shall
charge the property owner a fee in the amount of the actual
cost of removal or one hundred dollars, whichever is less,
provided that the property owner shall reimburse the Town
for the Town’s actual costs of removing such graffiti from
any funds forfeited by the offender to the property owner
under any related criminal or non-criminal enforcement
action.  Absent any forfeiture of funds to the property
owner, as stated above, the Town shall not assess more than
a total of two hundred dollars in fees per property per
owner in any 12 month period.  If the Commissioner of
Public Works or his designee determines that the graffiti
cannot be safely removed or that it is not appropriate for
the Town to remove it, he shall notify the property owner
of his determination in writing and the property owner
shall remove the graffiti within fourteen days of delivery
of such notice.

In the case of graffiti on commercial property or private
residential property consisting of more than thirty
dwelling units, the property owner shall, within fourteen
days of delivery of the notice, remove the graffiti at his
own expense.

Notwithstanding any other provisions contained herein, if
such graffiti is within an Historic District established
under Section 5.6 of the Town’s By-laws, then any
guidelines or Rules or Regulations adopted by the
Preservation Commission pertaining to the removal of
graffiti shall apply if and to the extent not inconsistent
with this by-law.
```

### SECTION 8.5.9.5 ENFORCEMENT

```
Failure to remove the graffiti or make a written request to
the Commissioner of Public Works in accordance with the
requirements of Section 8.5.9.4 within fourteen days of
delivery of the notice may be deemed a violation of this
section and shall be dealt with as a non-criminal offense
in accordance with the provisions of G.L. c. 40, s. 21D and
Article 10.3 of these By-laws.

Owners who repeatedly violate the provisions of Section
8.5.9.4 may be prosecuted under the provisions of Article
10.1 of these By-laws.

Any fee charged by the Town for the cost of graffiti
removal under section 8.5.9.4 remaining unpaid after sixty
days of notice of such charge shall be subject to the
provisions of G.L. c. 40, s. 58.
```
