## ARTICLE 8.34<br/>REGISTERED MARIJUANA DISPENSARY (RMD) LICENSES

### SECTION 8.34.1 PURPOSE

```
The purpose of this By-Law is to prevent and minimize any
possible adverse public health and safety consequences that
could result from the establishment of Registered Marijuana
Dispensaries (“RMDs”) within the Town pursuant to Chapter 369 of
the Acts of 2012, “An Act for the Humanitarian Medical Use of
Marijuana” (the “Act”), while at the same time recognizing the
purpose of the Act to make medical marijuana available to
qualifying patients.
```

### SECTION 8.34.2 LICENSE

```
No person shall operate an RMD within the Town unless licensed
to do so by the Board of Selectmen (“Board”).  An RMD license
shall be valid for a term of one year from the first day of
January.

Each day of operation without an RMD license shall constitute a
separate violation.

An RMD license shall be subject to the RMD’s compliance with
Massachusetts and Town laws, by-laws, regulations, and codes,
including, but not limited to, 105 C.M.R. 725, the Town’s Zoning
By-Law, and any Town regulations adopted pursuant to this By-
Law.
```

### SECTION 8.34.3 REGULATIONS

```
The Board may issue regulations for the implementation of this
By-Law.
```

### SECTION 8.34.4 APPLICATIONS FOR NEW OR RENEWED RMD LICENSES

```
The Board shall specify the process and forms to be used by
applicants for new and renewed RMD licenses.  The Board or its
designee may inspect an RMD and affiliated vehicles prior to the
issuance of an RMD license or renewal of a license.  All areas
of an RMD and all RMD records may be subject to inspection
consistent with applicable law.

The Board may, to the extent permitted under applicable law
(including any Town regulations promulgated hereunder), consider
whether an applicant for a license is a suitable and responsible
license candidate and other aspects of the application as may be
necessary to implement the purposes of this By-Law.  An
applicant’s non-compliance with Massachusetts and Town laws, by-
laws, regulations, and codes, including, but not limited to, 105
C.M.R. 725, the Town’s Zoning By-Law, and any Town regulations
adopted pursuant to this By-Law, may be cause for denial of an
application for a new or renewed RMD license.
```

### SECTION 8.34.5 IMPLEMENTATION

```
This By-Law shall not be implemented in a manner that conflicts
or interferes with the Act or with 105 C.M.R. 725.
```
