## ARTICLE 8.31<br/>LEAF BLOWERS

### SECTION 8.31.1 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

```
Reducing the use of gasoline and oil fuels and reducing 
carbon emissions into the environment are public purpose of 
the Town and the reduction of noise and emissions of 
particulate matter resulting from the use of leaf blowers 
are public purposes in protecting the health, welfare and 
environment of the Town. Therefore, this by-law shall limit 
and regulate the use of leaf blowers as defined and set 
forth herein.
```

### SECTION 8.31.2 USE REGULATIONS

```
1. Leaf Blowers.
   Leaf blowers are defined as any portable gasoline powered
   machine used to blow leaves, dirt and other debris off 
   lawns, sidewalks, driveways, and other horizontal surfaces.

2. Limitations on Use.
a. Leaf blowers shall not be operated except between March 
15 and May 15 and between September 15 and December 15 in 
each year. The provisions of this subsection do not apply 
to the use of leaf blowers by the Town and its contractors. 
The provisions of this section also do not apply to non- 
residential property owners but only with respect to 
parcels that contain at least five acres of open space. 
The provisions of this subsection also shall not apply to 
the use of leaf blowers by the Town or its designees for 
performing emergency operations and clean-up associated 
with storms, hurricanes and the like.

3. Regulations.
The Commissioner of Public Works with the approval of the 
Board of Selectmen shall have the authority to promulgate 
regulations to implement the provisions of this Leaf Blower 
By-Law.

4. Enforcement and Penalties
a. This bylaw may be enforced in accordance with Articles 
10.1, 10.2 and/or 10.3 of the General By-Laws by a police 
officer, the Building Commissioner or his/her designee, the 
Commissioner of Public Works or his/her designee and/or the 
Director of Public Health or his/her designee.

b. For the purposes of this section “person” shall be 
defined as any individual, company, occupant, real property 
owner, or agent in control of real property. Each violation 
shall be subject to fines according to the following 
schedule:
   (a) a warning or $50.00 for the first offense;
   (b) $100.00 for the second offense;
   (c) $200.00 for the third offense;
   (d) $200.00 for successive violations, plus
   (e) court costs for any enforcement action.

5. Effective Date.
The provisions of this Leaf Blower By-Law shall be 
effective in accordance with the provisions of G.L.c.40, 
s.32.
```
