## ARTICLE 8.28<br>RESTRICTION ON USE OF ARTIFICIAL TRANS FAT

### SECTION 8.28.1 ARTIFICIAL TRANS FAT RESTRICTED

```
No foods containing artificial trans fat, as defined in
this section, shall be stored, distributed, held for
service, used in preparation of any menu item or served
in any food service establishment or by any mobile food
unit commissary, except food that is being served
directly to patrons in a manufacturer’s original sealed
package.
```

### SECTION 8.28.2       DEFINITION

```
For the purposes of this section, a food shall be deemed
to contain artificial trans fat if the food is labeled
as, lists as an ingredient, or has vegetable shortening,
margarine or any kind of partially hydrogenated
vegetable oil.  However, a food whose nutrition facts
label or other documentation from the manufacturer lists
the trans fat content of the food as less than 0.5 grams
per serving, shall not be deemed to contain artificial
trans fat.
```

### SECTION 8.28.3     EFFECTIVE DATE

```
This section shall take effect on November 30, 2008,
with respect to oils, shortenings and margarines
containing artificial trans fat that are used for frying
or in spreads; except that the effective date of this
section with regard to oils or shortenings used for deep
frying of yeast dough or cake batter, and with regard to
all other foods containing artificial trans fat, shall
be April 30, 2009.

In the event that compliance with the effective dates
of this by-law is not feasible for a food service
establishment or mobile food unit commissary, because of
either unavailability of alternatives to trans fat or
economic hardship, the Director of Health and Human
Services may grant a waiver of not more than six months
upon application of the owner or the owner’s
representative.  The waiver may be extended upon the
showing of continued infeasibility as set forth above.
```
