## ARTICLE 8.16<br/>COLLECTION AND RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS

### SECTION 8.16.1 PURPOSE

```
Article 8.16 is enacted to maintain and expand the Town’s
solid waste collection and recycling programs under its
Home Rule powers, its police powers to protect the health,
safety and welfare of its inhabitants and General Laws,
Chapter 40, Section 21; Chapter 21A, Sections 2 and 8;
Chapter 111, Sections 31, 31A and 31B and to comply with
the Massachusetts Waste Ban, 310 CMR 19.
```

### SECTION 8.16.2 SCOPE

```
This By-Law and the regulations adopted hereunder shall
govern and control all aspects of the collection, storage,
transportation and removal of solid waste and recyclable
materials in the Town. The requirements in 8.16, and in the
regulations adopted hereunder, are applicable to all owners
and occupants of all property in the Town, including,
without limiting the foregoing, owners and occupants of all
residential units whose waste is collected as a Town
service or by a permitted private hauler; all property
managers acting on behalf of owners or occupants of
residential units; all owners and occupants of commercial
facilities whose waste is collected as a Town service; and
all haulers permitted to collect municipal waste and
recyclables in the Town.
```

### SECTION 8.16.3 RULES AND REGULATIONS

```
The Board of Selectmen may adopt regulations governing the
collection, storage, transportation and removal of solid
waste and shall adopt regulations to implement a recycling
program in the Town. The regulations adopted by the Board
may be amended, from time to time, and may add other
categories of waste materials to be separated and recycled,
as the Town develops programs and the capacity to collect
and recycle new categories of waste materials. Prior to the
adoption or amendment of any such regulations the Board of
Selectmen shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of
the time, place and subject matter of which, sufficient for
identification, shall be given by publishing such notice in
a newspaper of general circulation in the town once in each
of two successive weeks the first publication to be not
less than fourteen days prior to the date set for such
hearing or by the posting of such notice on the town’s
bulletin board in the Town Hall not less than fourteen days
prior to the date set for such hearing.
```

### SECTION 8.16.4 SEPARATION OF WASTE MATERIALS

```
In order to implement recycling in conjunction with the
Town’s solid waste collection programs, owners, residents,
and occupants of every household, residential unit,
commercial facility or other building, whose waste is
collected as a Town service or by a permitted hauler, shall
separate for collection, in the manner set forth in this
By-Law and the regulations adopted hereunder, the
categories of waste materials defined as Recyclable
Materials in the Town of Brookline Solid Waste Regulations.
```

### SECTION 8.16.5 MANDATORY SYSTEMS FOR COLLECTION, STORAGE AND REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLES IN RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS

```
All owners, landlords and property managers of residential
buildings shall set up systems for the collection, storage,
and removal of recyclables generated by the occupants and
residents in their buildings, in accordance with the
regulations adopted hereunder.
```

### SECTION 8.16.6 PERMITTED HAULERS TO COMPLY WITH ALL REGULATIONS AND TO PROVIDE RECYCLING REMOVAL SERVICES FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES

```
Every permitted solid waste hauler, as a precondition to
receiving a permit to collect solid waste within the Town
of Brookline, shall be required to comply with Article
8.16, and the regulations adopted hereunder, and all
Department of Public Works and Brookline Health Department
regulations for the storage, collection and removal of
solid waste and recyclables. Every permitted hauler shall
be required to provide its residential customers with the
services of collecting and properly disposing of
recyclables.
```

### SECTION 8.16.7 UN-SEPARATED WASTE MATERIAL

```
If solid waste (a) is not separated for recycling as
required herein and in the regulations promulgated
hereunder; or (b) is not separated for recycling, as
described in (a) above, and is put out for waste 
collection; or (c) is not separated for recycling, as 
described in (a) above, is put out for waste collection and 
is not collected by the town or a permitted hauler, the 
owner, manager and occupants of the property (the Property) 
shall be individually and collectively responsible for 
removing that solid waste from on or about the public or 
private way, within twelve (12) hours after the scheduled 
collection time for such solid waste, and storing it on the 
Property in a sanitary and safe manner, until it is 
separated for recycling and removed by the town or a 
permitted hauler. The owner, manager or occupants of the 
Property responsible for any one or more of the conditions 
described in (a) or (b) or (c) above, shall be subject to 
the enforcement provisions in Article 10.2 and the non- 
criminal disposition provisions in Article 10.3. Each day 
any one the conditions described in (a) or (b) or (c) 
continues shall constitute a separate violation.
```
