## ARTICLE 8.10<br/>FOOD VENDORS LICENSE

### SECTION 8.10.1 REGULATION BY LICENSE

```
No person shall offer food for sale to the Public in a food
service establishment, as hereinafter defined, unless
licensed as a common victualler or an innholder under the
provisions of c. 140 of the General Laws, without first
obtaining a Food Vendors License under the provisions of
this by-law.  Any person who violates this section shall be
liable to a fine of $50 per violation.  Each day of
operation without a Food Vendor's License shall constitute
a separate violation.
```

### SECTION 8.10.2 FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT DEFINED

```
Food service establishment shall include any fixed or
mobile place, structure or vehicle whether permanent,
transient, or temporary, private, public, or non-profit,
routinely serving the public; or any other eating and
drinking establishment or place in which food or drink is
prepared for sale or for service to the public on the
premises or elsewhere.
```

### SECTION 8.10.3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE

```
Each applicant for such license shall submit, on forms to
be provided by the Board of Selectmen, the following
information: name and address of applicant, name and
address of place of business, evidence, in form
satisfactory to the Board of Selectmen, that the applicant
has upon the premises the necessary implements and
facilities for cooking, preparing and furnishing food to
the public, and such other information as the Board of
Selectmen shall require.  The Selectmen may require
applicants to submit a plan showing, if any, the location
of fixtures and other facilities including bathrooms and
the general arrangement of the premises including, in the
case of applications for premises not yet completed,
estimates of the cost of the proposed arrangement and of
the facilities indicated on the plan.
```

### SECTION 8.10.4 LICENSE DISCRETION

```
Such license shall not be issued or be valid until it has
been signed by a majority of the Board of Selectmen.  The
Selectmen may refuse to grant such a license if, in their
opinion, the public good does not require it.
```

### SECTION 8.10.5 TERM AND APPLICATION FEE

```
Food Vendor's Licenses shall be valid for a term of one
year from the first day of January until the 31st day of
December.  A non-refundable fee of $25 shall be submitted
with the application for such license.  The Selectmen may
in their discretion suspend the requirement of the fee for
hospitals.
```

### SECTION 8.10.6 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE

```
If, in the opinion of the Board of Selectmen, a licensee
ceases to be engaged in the activity licensed hereunder, or
fails to maintain upon the premises on which such activity
is licensed the implements and facilities required by these
by-laws, the Selectmen shall immediately revoke his
license.  If the licensee at any time conducts his licensed
business in an improper manner, the Board of Selectmen,
after notice to the licensee and public hearing, may, upon
satisfactory proof thereof, suspend or revoke his license.
```

### SECTION 8.10.7 PLAN OF PREMISES

```
No license shall be issued under this Article until the
applicant submits a plan acceptable to the Licensing
Authority that establishes procedures and requirements for
the control and elimination of litter.  The plan must set
forth requirements for the pick-up and disposal of litter
resulting from or generated by the sale of food under the
license.
```

### SECTION 8.10.8 USE OF SIDEWALKS AND OUTDOOR PREMISES

```
The Board of Selectmen may, upon written application by a
licensed Food Vendor, after notice and hearing, grant, upon
such terms and conditions as they determine to be necessary
and desirable, that Licensed Food Vendor the right to use
the outdoor portion of the licensed premises and/or a
portion of a town sidewalk that is contiguous to the
licensed premises for outside seating for Patrons.  Prior
to such a grant, the Board of Selectmen shall seek advisory
reports from the Planning Board, Building Commissioner,
Police Department and Commissioner of Public Works. No such
grant shall be for more than six months in any license
year.  No such grant shall extend beyond the term of the
license.  Any right granted hereunder shall be subject to
revocation if the exercise of the grant interferes with
public safety and convenience.
```
