## SECTION 8.27<br/>WETLANDS PROTECTION BYLAW

### 8.27.1 PURPOSE

```
The purpose of this bylaw is to protect the wetlands,
water resources, and adjoining land areas in the Town
of Brookline by controlling activities deemed by the
Conservation Commission likely to have a significant
or cumulative effect upon resource area values,
including but not limited to the following: public or
private water supply, groundwater, flood control,
erosion and sedimentation control, storm damage
prevention, water quality, water pollution control,
wildlife habitat, rare species habitat including rare
plant species, and recreation values. This bylaw is
intended to utilize the Home Rule authority of this
municipality to protect additional resource areas, for
additional values, with additional standards and
procedures stricter than those of the Wetlands
Protection Act (G.L. c. 131, § 40) and Regulations
thereunder (310 CMR 10.00), subject, however, to the
rights and benefits accorded to agricultural uses and
structures of all kinds under the laws of the
Commonwealth.
```

### 8.27.2 DEFINITIONS

```
Except as otherwise provided in this bylaw or in
regulations of the Commission, the definitions of
terms in this bylaw shall be as set forth in the
Wetlands Protection Act (G.L. c. 131, § 40) and
Regulations (310 CMR 10.00).

a. ALTER – To change the condition of any resource
   area subject to protection under this bylaw. 
   Examples of alteration include but are not
   limited to, the following:

   1) the changing of pre-existing drainage
      characteristics, flushing characteristics,
      sedimentation patterns, flow patterns and flood
      retention areas;

   2) the raising or lowering of the water level or
      water table;

   3) the destruction of vegetation;

   4) the changing of water temperature, salinity,
      biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and other
      physical, biological or chemical characteristics
      of the receiving water.

b. BANK – The land area which normally abuts
   and confines a water body; the lower boundary being
   the mean annual low flow level, and the upper
   boundary being the first observable break in the
   slope or the mean annual flood level, whichever
   is higher.

c. BUFFER ZONE – That area of land extending 150 feet
   horizontally outward from the boundary of a
   resource area, except that riverfront areas and
   vernal pools shall have no buffer zones.

d. ISOLATED VEGETATED WETLAND – An isolated wetland
   that is not hydraulically connected to another
   resource area and is at least 2,500 square feet
   in size.

e. ISOLATED LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING – Land as so
   defined in the Wetlands Protection Act and 310
   CMR 10.57(2)(b), as they may be amended.

f. PERSON – Any individual, group of individuals,
   association, partnership, corporation, company,
   business organization, trust, estate, the
   Commonwealth or political subdivision thereof to
   the extent subject to town bylaws, administrative
   agency, public or quasi-public corporation or
   body, this municipality, and any other legal
   entity, its legal representatives, agents, or
   assigns.

g. POND – A water body as so defined in the Wetlands
   Protection Act and 310 CMR 10.04, except that a
   size threshold of 5,000 square feet shall apply.

h. RARE SPECIES – Without limitation, all vertebrate
   and invertebrate animal and plant species listed
   as endangered, threatened, or of special concern
   by the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and
   Wildlife, regardless of whether the site in which
   they occur has been previously identified by the
   Division.

i. RESOURCE AREAS - Land under lakes, ponds, rivers
   or streams; any bank, marsh, wet meadow, bog or
   swamp bordering on any lake, pond, river or
   stream; land subject to flooding bordering on any
   lake, pond, river or stream; isolated land
   subject to flooding; isolated vegetated wetlands;
   riverfront areas; and vernal pools.

j. RESOURCE AREA VALUES – Without limitation, public
   or private water supply, groundwater, flood
   control, erosion and sedimentation control, storm
   damage prevention, water quality, water pollution
   control, wildlife habitat, rare species habitat
   including rare plant species, and recreation
   values.

k. RIVERFRONT AREA – Land as so defined in the
   Wetlands Protection Act and 310 CMR 10.58(2), as
   they may be amended.

l. STREAM – An open body of running water, including
   brooks and creeks, which moves in a definite
   channel, in the ground, due to a hydraulic
   gradient and flows within, into, or out of an
   Area Subject to Protection under this bylaw.
   Such bodies of running water that are
   intermittent are streams, except for those that
   serve only to carry the immediate surface runoff
   from stormwater or snowmelt.  A portion of a
   stream may flow through a culvert or beneath a
   bridge.  Where a stream or river runs thorough a
   culvert more than 200 feet in length, the buffer
   zone or riverfront area stops at a perpendicular
   line at the upstream end of the culvert and
   resumes at the downstream end.

m. VERNAL POOL – A confined basin depression that,
   at least in most years, holds water for a minimum
   of two continuous months during the spring and/or
   summer, and that is free of adult fish
   populations, as well as the area within 100 feet
   of the mean annual boundary of such a depression,
   and that is breeding habitat for amphibian
   species such as wood frog, spotted salamander,
   and fairy shrimp, regardless of whether the site
   has been certified by the Massachusetts Division
   of Fisheries and Wildlife.  A vernal pool does
   not have a buffer zone.
```

### 8.27.3 JURISDICTION

```
Except as permitted by the Conservation Commission or
as provided in this bylaw, no person shall alter a
resource area or a buffer zone. Resource areas shall
be protected whether or not they border surface
waters. Facilities constructed for the purpose of and
designated as reservoirs shall be exempt from the
jurisdiction of this bylaw.
```

### 8.27.4 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS

```
The application and permit required by this bylaw
shall not be required for the following activities:

a. maintaining, repairing, or replacing, but not
   substantially changing or enlarging an existing
   and lawfully located structure or facility used
   in the service of the public to provide electric,
   gas, water, telephone, telegraph, or other
   telecommunication services, provided that written
   notice has been given to the Commission prior to
   commencement of work, and provided that the work
   conforms to performance standards and design
   specifications in regulations adopted by the
   Commission;

b. work performed for normal maintenance or
   improvement of land which is lawfully in
   agricultural use;

c. for emergency projects necessary for the
   protection of the health and safety of the
   public, provided that the work is to be performed
   by or has been ordered to be performed by an
   agency of the Commonwealth or a political
   subdivision thereof; provided that advance
   notice, oral or written, has been given to the
   Commission prior to commencement of work or
   within 24 hours after commencement; provided that
   the Commission or its agent certifies the work as
   an emergency project; provided that the work is
   performed only for the time and place certified
   by the Commission for the limited purposes
   necessary to abate the emergency; and provided
   that within 21 days of commencement of an
   emergency project a permit application shall be
   filed with the Commission for review as provided
   by this bylaw.  Upon failure to meet these and
   other requirements of the Commission, the
   Commission may, after notice and a public
   hearing, revoke or modify an emergency project
   approval and order restoration and mitigation
    measures.

d. the application of herbicides as specifically set
   forth in 310 CMR 10.03(6) as may be amended.

e. facilities constructed for the purpose of and
   designated as reservoirs shall be exempt from the
   jurisdiction of this bylaw.

f. any bordering vegetated wetland, bank, land under
   water, land subject to flooding, or riverfront
   area created for the purpose of stormwater
   management shall not require the filing of a
   Notice of Intent or a Request for Determination
   of Applicability to maintain the stormwater
   management system, provided that the work is
   limited to the maintenance of the stormwater
   management system and that the area is not
   altered for other purposes.

Other than as stated in this section, the exceptions
provided in the Wetlands Protection Act (G.L. c. 131,
§ 40) and Regulations (310 CMR 10.00) shall not apply
under this bylaw.
```

### 8.27.5 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS, REQUESTS FOR DETERMINATION AND CONSULTANT FEE

```
a. Written application shall be filed with the
   Commission to perform activities affecting resource
   areas protected by this bylaw.  The permit
   application shall include such information and plans
   as are deemed necessary by the Commission to
   describe proposed activities and their effects on
   the resource areas protected by this bylaw.  No
   activities shall commence without receiving and
   complying with a permit issued pursuant to this
   bylaw.  Projects shall not be segmented.

b. The Commission in an appropriate case may accept as
   the permit application and plans under this bylaw
   the Notice of Intent or the Request for
   Determination of Applicability filed under the
   Wetlands Protection Act (G.L. c. 131, § 40) and
   Regulations (310 CMR 10.00).

c. Any person desiring to know whether or not a
   proposed activity or an area is subject to this
   bylaw may in writing request a determination from
   the Commission.  Such a Request for Determination
   (RFD) shall include information and plans as are
   deemed necessary by the Commission.  Such
   requirements shall be consistent with those required
   under the Wetlands Protection Act (G.L. c. 131, §
   40) and Regulations (310 CMR 10.00).

d. The Commission may request an Applicant, submitting
   an application for a permit, the project cost of
   which is estimated at $2,000,000 or more to retain
   and pay the fees for a Consultant to prepare a
   report for the Commission’s review.  The project cost
   means the estimated, entire cost of the project
   including but not limited to design, building
   construction, site preparation, landscaping, and all
   site improvements.
```

### 8.27.6 NOTICE AND HEARINGS

```
a. Any person filing a permit application or a RFD with
   the Commission shall at the same time give written
   notice thereof, by certified mail with return
   receipt requested, or hand delivered with
   signatures, to all abut ters at their mailing
   addresses shown on the most recent applicable tax
   list of the assessors, including owners of land
   directly opposite on any public or private street or
   way, and abutters to the abutters within 100 feet of
   the property line of the applicant, including any in
   another municipality or across a body of water.  The
   notice to abutters shall have enclosed a copy of the
   permit application or request, with plans, or shall
   state where copies may be examined and obtained by
   abutters.  An affidavit of the person providing such
   notice, with a copy of the notice mailed or
   delivered, shall be filed with the Commission.

b. When a person requesting a determination is other
   than the owner, the request, the notice of the
   hearing, and the determination itself shall be sent
   by the Commission to the owner as well as to the
   person making the request.

c. The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on any
   permit application or RFD, with written notice given
   at the expense of the applicant, five business days
   prior to the hearing, in a newspaper of general
   circulation in the municipality.

d. The Commission shall commence the public hearing
   within 21 days from receipt of a completed permit
   application or RFD unless an extension is authorized
   in writing by the applicant.

e. The Commission shall issue its permit or
   determination in writing within 21 days of the close
   of the public hearing thereon unless an extension is
   authorized in writing by the applicant.

f. The Commission in an appropriate case may combine
its hearing under this bylaw with the hearing
conducted under the Wetlands Protection Act (G.L.
c.131, § 40) and Regulations (310 CMR 10.00).

g. The Commission shall have authority to continue the
   hearing to a certain date announced at the hearing,
   for reasons stated at the hearing, which may include
   receipt of additional information from the applicant
   or others deemed necessary by the Commission in its
   discretion, or comments and recommendations of the
   boards and officials listed in §VII.
```

### 8.27.7 COORDINATION WITH OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

```
Any person filing a permit application or RFD with the
Commission shall provide written notification thereof
at the same time to the town engineer, and building
commissioner.  An affidavit of the person providing
notice, with a copy of the notice mailed or delivered,
shall be filed with the Commission.  The Commission
shall not take final action until the Town Engineer,
Zoning Administrator and Building Commissioner have
had 14 days from receipt of notice to file written
comments and recommendations with the Commission,
which the Commission shall take into account but which
shall not be binding on the Commission.  The applicant
shall have the right to receive any comments and
recommendations, and to respond to them at a hearing
of the Commission, prior to final action.
```

### 8.27.8 PERMITS AND CONDITIONS

```
a. If the Commission, after a public hearing,
   determines that the activities which are subject to
   the permit application or the land and water uses
   which will result therefrom are likely to have a
   significant individual or cumulative effect upon the
   resource area values protected by this bylaw, the
   Commission, within 21 days of the close of the
   hearing, shall issue or deny a permit for the
   activities requested.  If it issues a permit, the
   Commission shall impose conditions that the
   Commission deems necessary or desirable to protect
   those values, and all activities shall be done in
   accordance with those conditions.  The Commission
   shall take into account the cumulative adverse
   effects of loss, degradation, isolation, and
   replication of protected resource areas throughout
   the community and the watershed, resulting from past
   activities, permitted and exempt, and foreseeable
   future activities.

b. The Commission is empowered to deny a permit for
   failure to meet the requirements of this bylaw; for
   failure to submit necessary information and plans
   requested by the Commission; for failure to meet the
   design specifications, performance standards, and
   other requirements in regulations of the Commission;
   for failure to avoid or prevent unacceptable
   significant or cumulative effects upon the resource
   area values protected by this bylaw; and where no
   conditions are adequate to protect those values.
   Due consideration shall be given to any demonstrated
   hardship, financial or otherwise, on the applicant
   by reason of denial, as presented at the public
   hearing.

c. Riverfront areas and buffer zones are presumed
   important to the protection of resource area values
   because activities undertaken in them have a high
   likelihood of adverse impact upon the wetlands or
   other resources, either immediately, as a
   consequence of construction, or over time, as a
   consequence of daily operation or existence of the
   activities.  Such adverse impact from construction
   and use can include, without limitation, flooding,
   erosion, siltation, loss of groundwater recharge,
   poor water quality, and loss of wildlife habitat.
   The Commission therefore may require that the
   applicant maintain a strip up to 50 feet wide of
   continuous, undisturbed vegetative cover within a
   riverfront area or buffer zone.

d. In the review of riverfront areas and buffer zones
   of streams, no permit issued hereunder shall permit
   any activities unless the applicant, in addition to
   meeting the otherwise applicable requirements of
   this bylaw, has proved by a preponderance of the
   evidence that (1) there is no practicable
   alternative to the proposed project with less
   adverse effects, and that (2) such activities,
   including proposed mitigation measures, will have no
   significant adverse impact on the areas or values
   protected by this bylaw.  The Commission shall
   regard as practicable an alternative which is
   reasonably available and capable of being done after
   taking into consideration the proposed property use,
   overall project purpose (e.g., residential,
   institutional, commercial, or industrial purpose),
   logistics, existing technology, costs of the
   alternatives, and overall project costs.

e. To prevent wetlands loss, the Commission shall
   require applicants to avoid wetlands alteration
   wherever feasible; shall minimize wetlands
   alteration; and, where alteration is unavoidable,
   shall require full mitigation.  The Commission may
   authorize or require replication of wetlands as a
   form of mitigation, but only with adequate security,
   professional design, and monitoring to assure
   success, because of the high likelihood of failure
   of replication.

f. A permit shall expire three years from the date of
   issuance.  Notwithstanding the above, the Commission
   in its discretion may issue a permit expiring five
   years from the date of issuance for recurring or
   continuous maintenance work, provided that annual
   notification of time and location of work is given
   to the Commission.  Any permit may be renewed once
   for an additional one year period, provided that a
   request for a renewal is received in writing by the
   Commission prior to expiration.  Notwithstanding the
   above, a permit may contain requirements which shall
   be enforceable for a stated number of years,
   indefinitely, or until permanent protection is in
   place, and shall apply to all owners of the land.

g. For good cause the Commission may revoke or modify a
   permit or determination issued under this bylaw
   after notice to the holder of the permit or
   determination, notice to the public, abutters, and
   town boards, pursuant to §VI and §VII, and a public
   hearing.

h. The Commission in an appropriate case may combine
   the permit or determination issued under this bylaw
   with the Order of Conditions or Determination of
   Applicability issued under the Wetlands Protection
   Act (G.L. c. 131, § 40) and Regulations (310 CMR
   10.00).

i. No work proposed in any permit application shall be
   undertaken until the permit issued by the Commission
   with respect to such work has been recorded in the
   registry of deeds or, if the land affected is
   registered land, in the registry section of the land
   court for the district wherein the land lies, and
   until the holder of the permit certifies in writing
   to the Commission that the permit has been recorded.
```

### 8.27.9 REGULATIONS

```
After public notice and public hearing, the Commission
shall promulgate regulations to effectuate the
purposes of this bylaw and shall be effective when
voted and filed with the town clerk.  Failure by the
Commission to promulgate such regulations or a legal
declaration of their invalidity by a court of law
shall not act to suspend or invalidate the effect of
this bylaw.
```

### 8.27.10 SECURITY

```
As part of a permit issued under this bylaw, in
addition to any security required by any other
municipal or state board, agency, or official, the
Commission may require that the performance and
observance of the conditions imposed thereunder
(including conditions requiring mitigation work) be
secured wholly or in part by one or more of the
methods described below:

a. By a proper bond or deposit of money or negotiable
   securities or other undertaking of financial
   responsibility sufficient in the opinion of the
   Commission, to be released in whole or in part upon
   issuance of a Certificate of Compliance for work
   performed pursuant to the permit.

b. By accepting a conservation restriction, easement,
   or other covenant enforceable in a court of law,
   executed and duly recorded by the owner of record,
   running with the land to the benefit of this
   municipality whereby the permit conditions shall be
   performed and observed before any lot may be
   conveyed other than by mortgage deed.  This method
   shall be used only with the consent of the
   applicant.
```

### 8.27.11 ENFORCEMENT

```
a. No person shall alter a resource area or a buffer
   zone, or cause, suffer, or allow alteration, or
   leave in place unauthorized fill, or otherwise fail
   to restore illegally altered land to its original
   condition, or fail to comply with a permit or an
   enforcement order issued pursuant to this bylaw.

b. Only upon the filing of either an Request for
   Determination or a Permit under this bylaw the
   Commission, its agents, officers, and employees
   shall have authority to enter upon privately owned
   land for the purpose of performing their duties
   under this bylaw and may make or cause to be made
   such examinations, surveys, or sampling as the
   Commission deems necessary, subject to the
   constitutions and laws of the United States and the
   Commonwealth.  In the absence of the filing of a
   Request for Determination or a Permit the
   Commission, its agents, officers and employees shall
   consult with Town Counsel prior to entering upon
   privately owned land for the purpose of determining
   compliance with this by-law or for any other purpose
   in furtherance of the objectives of this by-law.

c. The Commission shall have authority to enforce this
   bylaw, its regulations, and permits issued
   thereunder by violation notices, administrative
   orders, and civil court actions.  Any person who
   violates provisions of this bylaw may be ordered to
   restore the property to its original condition and
   take other action deemed necessary to remedy such
   violations, or may be fined, or both.

d. In the case of civil action, the Commission with the
   approval of the board of selectmen may request the
   town counsel to take legal action as necessary to
   enforce the terms of this by-law under civil law.

e. Municipal boards and officers, including any police
   officer or other officer having police powers, shall
   have authority to assist the Commission in
   enforcement.

f. Any person who violates any provision of this bylaw,
   or regulations, permits, or administrative orders
   issued thereunder, shall be punished by a fine of
   not more than $300.  Each day or portion thereof
   during which a violation continues, or unauthorized
   fill or other alteration remains in place, shall
   constitute a separate offense, and each provision of
   the bylaw, regulations, permits, or administrative
   orders violated shall constitute a separate offense.

g. As an alternative to criminal prosecution in a
   specific case, the Commission may issue citations
   under the non-criminal disposition procedure set
   forth in G.L. c. 40, § 21D, which has been adopted
   by the Town in Article 10.3 of the general bylaws.
```

### 8.27.12 BURDEN OF PROOF

```
The applicant for a permit shall have the burden of
proving by a preponderance of credible evidence that
the work proposed in the permit application will not
have unacceptable, significant, or cumulative effect
upon the resource area values protected by this bylaw.
Failure to provide adequate evidence to the Commission
supporting this burden shall be sufficient cause for
the Commission to deny a permit or grant a permit with
conditions.
```

### 8.27.13 APPEALS

```
A decision of the Commission shall be reviewable in
the Superior Court in accordance with G.L. c. 249, §
4.  This in no way alters or amends an applicants
rights to appeal as set forth in the Massachusetts
Wetlands Protection Act M. G.L. c.131 § 40.
```

### 8.26.14 RELATION TO THE WETLANDS PROTECTION ACT

```
This bylaw is adopted under the Home Rule Amendment of
the Massachusetts Constitution and the Home Rule
statutes, independent of the Wetlands Protection Act
(G.L. c. 131, § 40) and Regulations (310 CMR 10.00)
thereunder.
```

### 8.27.15 SEVERABILITY

```
The invalidity of any section or provision of this
bylaw shall not invalidate any other section or
provision thereof, nor shall it invalidate any permit
or determination that has been issued previously.
```
