## ARTICLE 8.30<br/>FINGERPRINT-BASED CRIMINAL RECORD BACKGROUND CHECKS

### SECTION 8.30.1 PURPOSE/AUTHORIZATION

```
In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Town of Brookline, and as authorized by
chapter 256 of the Acts of 2010, this by-law shall require a)
applicants for certain Town licenses permitting the engagement
in specific occupational activities within the Town as
enumerated in Section 8.30.2 below to submit to fingerprinting
by the Brookline Police Department, b) the Police Department to
conduct criminal record background checks based on such
fingerprints, and c) the Town to consider the results of such
background checks in determining whether or not to grant a
license.

The Town authorizes the Massachusetts State Police, the
Massachusetts Department of Criminal Justice Information Systems
(DCJIS), and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as may be
applicable to conduct on the behalf of the Town and its Police
Department fingerprint-based state and national criminal record
background checks, including of FBI records, consistent with
this by-law. The Town authorizes the Police Department to
receive and utilize FBI records in connection with such
background checks, consistent with this by-law.
```

### SECTION 8.30.2 APPLICANT’S SUBMISSION TO FINGERPRINTING BY THE BROOKLINE POLICE DEPARTMENT

```
Any applicant for a license to engage in any of the following
occupational activities within the Town shall submit a full set
of fingerprints taken by the Brookline Police Department within
ten (10) days of the date of the application for a license for
the purpose of conducting a state and national criminal record
background check to determine the suitability of the applicant
for the license:

     Liquor Licensee
     Manager or Alternate Manager of a Liquor Licensee
     Hawker and Peddler
     Hackney Carriage (Taxi) Operator
     Solicitors and Canvassers
     Dealers in Junk, Second-Hand Articles and Antiques
     Second-Hand Motor Vehicle Dealers
     Ice Cream Truck Vendor

At the time of fingerprinting, the Police Department shall
notify the individuals fingerprinted that the fingerprints will
be used to check the individual’s FBI criminal history records.
```

### SECTION 8.30.3 POLICE DEPARTMENT PROCESSING OF FINGERPRINT-BASED CRIMINAL RECORD BACKGROUND CHECKS AND COMMUNICATION OF RESULTS

```
The Police Department shall transmit fingerprints it has
obtained pursuant to Section 8.30.2 of this by-law to the
Identification Section of the Massachusetts State Police, DCJIS,
and/or the FBI as may be necessary for the purpose of conducting
fingerprint-based state and national criminal records background
checks of license applicants specified in Section 8.30.2.

As further detailed in the Town’s policy applicable to Town
licensing-related criminal record background checks, the Police
Department shall provide the applicant with a copy of the
results of his or her fingerprint-based criminal record
background check and supply the applicant the opportunity to
complete, or challenge the accuracy of, the information
contained in it, including in the FBI identification record.
The Police Department shall also supply applicants with
information regarding the procedures for obtaining a change,
correction, or updating of a criminal record, including a copy
of 28 C.F.R. Part 16.34 pertaining to FBI identification
records.  In no event shall the Police Department render a
suitability evaluation pursuant to the paragraph below until it
has taken the steps detailed in this paragraph and otherwise
complied with the Town’s policy applicable to Town licensing-
related criminal record background checks.

The Police Department shall communicate the results of
fingerprint-based criminal record background checks to the
applicable licensing authority within the Town.  The Police
Department shall in addition render to the licensing authority
its evaluation of the applicant’s suitability for the proposed
occupational activity based upon the results of the criminal
records background check and any other relevant information
known to it.  In rendering its evaluation, the Police Department
shall consider all applicable laws, regulations and Town
policies bearing on an applicant’s suitability.  The Police
Department shall indicate whether the applicant has been
convicted of, or is under pending indictment for, a crime that
bears upon his or her suitability, or any felony or misdemeanor
that involved force or threat of force, controlled substances or
a sex-related offense.
```

### SECTION 8.30.4 RELIANCE ON RESULTS OF FINGERPRINT-BASED CRIMINAL RECORD BACKGROUND CHECKS

```
Licensing authorities of the Town shall utilize the results of
fingerprint-based criminal record background checks for the sole
purpose of determining the suitability of the subjects of the
checks in connection with the license applications specified in
Section 8.30.2.  A Town licensing authority may deny an
application for a license on the basis of the results of a
fingerprint-based criminal record background check if it
determines that the results of the check render the subject
unsuitable for the proposed occupational activity.  The
licensing authority shall consider all applicable laws,
regulations and Town policies bearing on an applicant’s
suitability in making this determination.  The licensing
authority shall not deny a license based on information in a
criminal record unless the applicant has been afforded a
reasonable time to correct or complete the record or has
declined to do so.
```

### SECTION 8.30.5 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW, REGULATION, AND TOWN POLICY

```
Implementation of this by-law and the conducting of fingerprint-
based criminal record background checks by the Town shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and Town
policies, including, but not limited to, the Town’s policy
applicable to licensing-related criminal record background
checks.  The Town shall not disseminate the results of
fingerprint-based criminal background checks except as may be
provided by law, regulation, and Town policy.  The Town shall
not disseminate criminal record information received from the
FBI to unauthorized persons or entities.
```

### SECTION 8.30.6 FEES

```
The fee charged by the Police Department for the purpose of
conducting fingerprint-based criminal record background checks
shall be set by the Board of Selectmen pursuant to G.L.c.40,
s.22F.  A portion of the fee, as specified in Mass. Gen. Laws
Chapter 6, Section 172B 1⁄2, shall be deposited into the Firearms
Fingerprint Identity Verification Trust Fund, and the remainder
of the fee may be retained by the Town for costs associated with
the administration of the fingerprinting system.
```
