## ARTICLE 8.22<br/>TAXICAB LICENSING

### SECTION 8.22.1 HACKNEY LICENSES

```
In the Town of Brookline, no person, firm or corporation
driving or having charge of a taxicab or other private
vehicle shall offer the vehicle for hire for the purpose of
transporting, soliciting and/or picking up a passenger or
passengers unless said person is licensed as a hackney
driver by the Chief of Police and unless said vehicle is
licensed as a hackney carriage by the Transportation Board.
However, nothing herein contained shall be construed as
prohibiting a driver of a taxicab or other private vehicle
licensed outside the Town of Brookline from driving through
said Town, or from accepting or other merchandise if
summoned by or at the request of said passenger or client
by telephone, or by radio dispatch from the owner or
operator's principal place of business outside the town of
Brookline.
```

### SECTION 8.22.2 VIOLATIONS

```
Any police officer witnessing a violation of Section 8.21.1
of this By-Law may arrest the driver of the vehicle and
seize evidence of said violation.  Such evidence shall
include but is not limited to, meters, whether mechanical
or electrical, for the computation of fares based on
mileage or predetermined periods of time.  Any officer who
seizes such items as evidence of a violation of Section
8.22.1 of this By-Law shall take them to a place of safety
until they are produced or used as evidence in any trial or
other court proceedings.  All such property seized shall be
disposed of as the court orders, and may be forfeited,
sold or destroyed in the discretion of the court.
```
