## ARTICLE 8.12<br/>HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS

### SECTION 8.12.1 PROHIBITED WITHOUT LICENSE

```
No person shall go from place to place in this town selling
or bartering, or carrying or exposing for sale or barter,
any fruits, vegetables, or fish in or from any cart, wagon,
or other vehicle, or in any other manner, without license,
therefor from the Town Administrator, provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any person who sells
only fruits or vegetables raised or produced by himself or
his family, or fish which is obtained by his own labor or
the labor of his family.
```

### SECTION 8.12.2 LICENSING

```
The Town Administrator shall have authority to grant such
license to any person of good repute for morals and
integrity who is or has declared his intentions to become a
citizen of the United States.  Said license, unless sooner
revoked by the board or officer granting the same, shall
expire one year from the date of issue, and each person so
licensed shall pay therefore a fee of twenty-five dollars.
```

### SECTION 8.12.3 REGISTRATION OF NAME FOR SALE OF FOOD

```
No hawker or peddler shall sell or offer or expose for sale
any article for human consumption including food and drink,
or any article used for the preparation of the same, until
he has recorded his name and residence with the Board of
Health or such other board or officer as may be designated
by the Town Administrator.  Every person licensed under the
provisions of the preceding sections as a hawker or peddler
of fruits, vegetables, and fish shall record his name and
residence in like manner with such board or officer.
```

### SECTION 8.12.4 NO DISTURBING THE PEACE

```
No person hawking, peddling, or carrying or exposing any
article for sale shall cry his wares to the disturbance of
the peace and comfort of the inhabitants of the town, nor
shall carry or convey such articles (in any manner that
will  tend to injure or disturb the public health or
comfort nor) otherwise than in vehicles and receptacles
which are neat and clean and do not leak.
```

### SECTION 8.12.5 BADGE AND NUMBER

```
Every hawker and peddler licensed as above shall be
assigned a number and shall be provided with a badge which
shall be conspicuously worn by him.  Every other such
hawker and peddler shall provide himself with a badge of
such type and design as may be approved by said board or
officer, which he shall wear in like manner.  Whoever
neglects to wear, or wears such badge without authority,
shall be punished by the penalty provided by these by-laws.
Each badge shall display the number assigned to the hawker
and peddler wearing that badge.
```

### SECTION 8.12.6 LICENSE NUMBER ON VEHICLE

```
Every vehicle or other receptacle used by a licensee as a
conveyance for articles offered or exposed for sale by him
shall have attached thereto on each side a number plate, or
to be furnished by the town with his license, bearing the
number of such license.
```

### SECTION 8.12.7 CERTIFIED WEIGHING AND MEASURING DEVICES

```
No person shall be registered or assigned a badge or number
under the provisions of THIS by-law until he presents a
certificate from the sealer of weights and measures stating
that all weighing and measuring devices intended to be used
by such person have been duly inspected and sealed as
required by law.  The use of, or possession by such person
with intent to use, any false unsealed weighing or
measuring devices shall be sufficient cause for the
revocation of his license or the cancellation of his
registration.
```

### SECTION 8.12.8 FAILURE TO EXHIBIT LICENSE

```
Any licensee who fails, neglects, or refuses to exhibit his
license when the same is demanded of him by a commissioner,
inspector, sealer of weights and measures, town treasurer,
Town clerk, constable, police officer or justice of the
peace, shall be subject to the same penalty as if he had no
license.
```

### SECTION 8.12.9 STATE LAW

```
Nothing in these By-laws shall be construed as conflicting
with any license issued under the authority of the
Commonwealth.
```

### SECTION 8.12.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE

```
Any license granted under these By-laws may be revoked for
cause or any violation of this by-law by the board or
officer granting the same, after notice and hearing.
```
