## ARTICLE 6.8<br/>NAMING PUBLIC FACILITIES

###￼￼SECTION 6.8.1

```
Except as hereinafter provided, town buildings, parks,
squares and other facilities, may be named only by Town
Meeting when such action is proposed in a Warrant Article.
The Library Trustees may, in accordance with guidelines
adopted and from time to time amended by them, name rooms
and associated spaces of library buildings.  The School
Committee may, in accordance with guidelines adopted and
from time to time amended by them name rooms and associated
spaces of school buildings.
```

### SECTION 6.8.2 REVIEW COMMITTEE

```
(A) Appointment - The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a 
Committee of five members for staggered three year terms to 
review all proposals for naming public facilities except 
rooms and associated spaces under the jurisdiction of the 
School Committee and Library Trustees as specified above in 
Section 6.8.1.  The Committee shall include one member of 
each of the Advisory Committee, the Park and Recreation 
Commission, the Preservation Commission and the School 
Committee.  In addition, the Board of Selectmen may appoint 
one alternate member to the Committee. Such alternate shall 
be appointed for a three year term and shall be designated 
by the Chair of the Committee from time to time to take the 
place of any member who is absent or unable or unwilling to 
act for any reason.

(B) General Duties – The Review Committee shall be 
responsible for reviewing and reporting its recommendations 
on proposals for naming public facilities. The Committee 
may also, from time to time initiate its own proposals for 
naming public facilities. All recommendations of the 
Committee shall be subject to criteria to be established by 
the Committee and approved by the Board of Selectmen.
```
